[MASWE-0004] Sensitive Data Not Excluded From Backup (#2866)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: demos/android/MASVS-STORAGE/MASTG-DEMO-0014/MASTG-DEMO-0014.md

Reviewer: update file name and `id` to MASTG-DEMO-0020

You can see the IDs here after sorting the table: https://mas.owasp.org/MASTG/demos/

Reviewer: Also update the test ID

Author: Fixed

---
platform: android
title: Sensitive Data Not Excluded From Backup
id: MASTG-DEMO-0014
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-0211
---

### Sample

The snippet below shows sample code that creates two files inside [`filesDir`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Context#getFilesDir()). One of the files is also marked as `exclude` inside `backup_rules.xml`.

> {{ MastgTest.kt }}
> 
> {{ backup_rules.xml }}

Reviewer: To use tabs:

```suggestion
{{ MastgTest.kt # backup_rules.xml }}
```

### Steps

> 1. Install an app on your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the target app on your device.
```

2. Execute `run_before.sh` which runs @MASTG-TOOL-0004.

> 3. Open an app and exercise it to trigger file creations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the app and exercise it to trigger file creations.
```

4. Execute `run_after.sh`.
5. Close the app once you finish testing.

{{ run.sh }}

### Observation

> There is a list of all restored files inside `output.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output contains a list of all restored files.
```

{{ output.txt }}

Their content is inside the `./restored_files/` directory and contains:

A password:

{{ restored_files/secret.txt }}

The file was created in `/data/user/0/org.owasp.mastestapp/files/` which is equivalent to `/data/data/org.owasp.mastestapp/files/`.

Note that the sample app wrote two files: `secret.txt` and `backup_excluded_secret.txt`. The latter is not restored because it is marked as `exclude` in the `backup_rules.xml` file.

### Evaluation

> If you don't intend to restore this file, this test fails.

Reviewer: "The test fails because ..."

See https://mas.owasp.org/MASTG/demos/ios/MASVS-CRYPTO/MASTG-DEMO-0015/MASTG-DEMO-0015/#evaluation

Author: Fixed
